docs/cpancover.md, before:

How to set up cpancover
=======================

Overview
--------

Cpancover requires a bourne shell and docker, as well as a recent perl.  The
code requires Perl 5.16.0 but earlier versions may work.

Docker
------

Each module is built in an individual docker container.  This should allow its
resources to be constrained.  In addition the docker container is killed after a
certain time.

I have only run this in Ubuntu 14.04.  The docker version there, 0.9.1 (as of
31.05.2104) is insufficient.  Version 0.11.1 is fine.  I don't know about the
versions in between.

(TODO - update docker build instructions)
The latest version of docker can be installed on Ubuntu as follows:
(see http://askubuntu.com/questions/472412/how-do-i-upgrade-docker)

    # wget -qO- https://get.docker.io/gpg | apt-key add -
    # echo deb http://get.docker.io/ubuntu docker main > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list
    # aptitude update
    # aptitude remove docker.io
    # aptitude install lxc-docker

You may need to add yourself to the docker group.

To build the docker container, check out the
[devel-cover-docker](https://github.com/pjcj/devel-cover-docker) project and
follow the instructions there.

Running
-------

To run the system as a whole:

    $ . ./utils/setup
    $ build_cpancover_perl
    $ perlbrew use cpancover_perl
    $ dc install_dependencies
    $ dc cpancover-run

The cpancover-run command will just sit there picking up on newly uploaded
distributions and running the coverage for them.  Or, for slightly more
control, jobs can be run as follows:

    $ dc cpancover-latest | head -2000 | dc cpancover

The top level HTML and JSON is generated with:

    $ dc cpancover-generate-html

Results
-------

The results of the runs will be stored in the ~/staging directory.  If this is
not where you want them stored (which is rather likely) then the simplest
solution is probably to make that directory a symlink to the real location.  If
you would prefer not to do that, or you want to run multiple separate cpancover
instances (probably only for development purposes), then you can change the
CPANCOVER_STAGING variable in the utils/dc script.

The results consist of the Devel::Cover cover_db directory for each package
tested, including the generated HTML output for that DB and the JSON summary
file.  Sitting above those directories is summary HTML providing links to the
individual coverage reports.

Web server
----------

If you want anyone to be able to look at the results, you'll need a web server
somewhere.  The results are all static HTML so there is not much configuration
required.

If you use nginx, the file in utils/cpancover.nginx can be copied into the
/etc/nginx/sites-available directory and from thence symlinked into
sites-enabled.  The static files are all gzipped and served as such where
possible.

Commit message:

Add perlbrew to cpancover documentation

docs/cpancover.md, after:

How to set up cpancover
=======================

Overview
--------

Cpancover requires a bourne shell, perlbrew, and docker, as well as a recent
perl.  The code requires Perl 5.16.0 but earlier versions may work.

Docker
------

Each module is built in an individual docker container.  This should allow its
resources to be constrained.  In addition the docker container is killed after a
certain time.

I have only run this in Ubuntu 14.04.  The docker version there, 0.9.1 (as of
31.05.2104) is insufficient.  Version 0.11.1 is fine.  I don't know about the
versions in between.

(TODO - update docker build instructions)
The latest version of docker can be installed on Ubuntu as follows:
(see http://askubuntu.com/questions/472412/how-do-i-upgrade-docker)

    # wget -qO- https://get.docker.io/gpg | apt-key add -
    # echo deb http://get.docker.io/ubuntu docker main > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list
    # aptitude update
    # aptitude remove docker.io
    # aptitude install lxc-docker

You may need to add yourself to the docker group.

To build the docker container, check out the
[devel-cover-docker](https://github.com/pjcj/devel-cover-docker) project and
follow the instructions there.

Perlbrew
--------

Install perlbrew by following the instructions on
[perlbrew.pl](https://perlbrew.pl/).

Running
-------

To run the system as a whole:

    $ . ./utils/setup
    $ build_cpancover_perl
    $ perlbrew use cpancover_perl
    $ dc install_dependencies
    $ dc cpancover-run

The cpancover-run command will just sit there picking up on newly uploaded
distributions and running the coverage for them.  Or, for slightly more
control, jobs can be run as follows:

    $ dc cpancover-latest | head -2000 | dc cpancover

The top level HTML and JSON is generated with:

    $ dc cpancover-generate-html

Results
-------

The results of the runs will be stored in the ~/staging directory.  If this is
not where you want them stored (which is rather likely) then the simplest
solution is probably to make that directory a symlink to the real location.  If
you would prefer not to do that, or you want to run multiple separate cpancover
instances (probably only for development purposes), then you can change the
CPANCOVER_STAGING variable in the utils/dc script.

The results consist of the Devel::Cover cover_db directory for each package
tested, including the generated HTML output for that DB and the JSON summary
file.  Sitting above those directories is summary HTML providing links to the
individual coverage reports.

Web server
----------

If you want anyone to be able to look at the results, you'll need a web server
somewhere.  The results are all static HTML so there is not much configuration
required.

If you use nginx, the file in utils/cpancover.nginx can be copied into the
/etc/nginx/sites-available directory and from thence symlinked into
sites-enabled.  The static files are all gzipped and served as such where
possible.
